thus says the Lord to his anointed to
Cyrus whose right hand I have held to
subdue nations before him and loosed the
armor of Kings to open before him the
double doors so that the gates will not
be shut I will go before you and make
the crooked places straight I will break
in pieces the gates of wrongs and cuts
the bars of iron I will give you the
treasures of darkness and hidden riches
of secret places that you may know that
I the Lord will call you by your name
and the God of Israel for Jacob My
servants sake and Israel my elect I have
even called you by your name I have
named you though you have not known me I
am the Lord and there is no other there
is no God besides me I will guide you
though you have not known me that they
may know from the rising of the Sun to
its setting that there is none besides
me I am the Lord and there is no other i
form the light and create darkness I
make peace and create calamity I the
LORD do all these things rain down new
heavens from above and let the skies
pour down righteousness let the earth
open let them bring forth salvation and
let righteousness spring up together i
the lord have created it woe to him who
strives with his maker
let the potsherd strive with the
potsherds of the earth shall the clay
say to him who forms it what are you
making
or shall your handiwork say he has no
hands woe to him who says to his father
what are you be getting or to the woman
what have you brought forth thus says
the Lord the Holy One of Israel and his
maker ask me of things to come
concerning my son's and concerning the
work of my hands you command me
I have made the earth and created man on
it I my hands stretched out the heavens
and all their hosts I have commanded I
have raised him up in righteousness and
I will direct all his ways he shall
build my city and let my x Isles go free
not for price nor reward thus says the
Lord the labor of Egypt and merchandise
of cush and of the sabaeans men of
stature shall come over to you and they
shall be yours they shall walk behind
you they shall come over in Chains and
they shall bow down to you they will
make supplication to you saying surely
God is in you and there is no other
there is no other God truly you are God
who hide yourself
o God of Israel the Savior they shall be
ashamed and also disgraced all of them
they shall go in confusion together who
are makers of idols but Israel shall be
saved by the Lord with an everlasting
salvation you shall not be ashamed or
disgraced for ever and ever
for thus says the Lord who created the
heavens who is God who formed the earth
and made it who has established it who
did not create it in vain who formed it
to be inhabited I am
and there is no other I have not spoken
in secret in a dark place of the earth I
did not say to the seed of Jacob seek me
in vain I the Lord speak righteousness
I declare things that are right assemble
yourselves and come draw near together
you who have escaped from the nation's
they have no knowledge who carry the
word of their carved image and pray to a
god that cannot save tell and bring
forth your case yes let them take
counsel together who has declared this
from ancient time who has told it from
that time have not I the Lord and there
is no other God besides me a just God
and a savior there is none besides me
look to me and be saved all you ends of
the earth for I am God and there is no
other I have swarmed by myself the word
has gone out of my mouth in
righteousness and shall not return that
to me every knee shall bow every tongue
shall take an oath he shall say surely
in the Lord I have righteousness and
strength to him men shall come and all
shall be ashamed who are incensed
against him in the Lord all the
descendants of Israel shall be justified
and shalt glory